# DATE

3/27/23

# Difficulty

Easy

My thoughts:

-   Easy

## [1480 Running Sum of 1d Array](https://leetcode.com/problems/running-sum-of-1d-array/?envType=study-plan&id=level-1)

### Problem

-   Given an array nums. We define a running sum of an
    array as runningSum[i] = sum(nums[0]…nums[i]).
-   Return the running sum of nums.

#### Example 1

```
Input: nums = [1,2,3,4]
Output: [1,3,6,10]
Explanation: Running sum is obtained as follows: [1, 1+2, 1+2+3, 1+2+3+4].
```

#### Example 2

```
Input: nums = [1,1,1,1,1]
Output: [1,2,3,4,5]
Explanation: Running sum is obtained as follows: [1, 1+1, 1+1+1, 1+1+1+1, 1+1+1+1+1].
```

#### Example 3

```
Input: nums = [3,1,2,10,1]
Output: [3,4,6,16,17]
```

#### Constraints

-   1 <= nums.length <= 1000
-   -10^6 <= nums[i] <= 10^6

### Preliminary Solution

-   **Time Complexity**: O(N)
-   **Space Complexity**: O(N)

#### _Backside_

To solve the problem of finding the running sum of an array, I began by creating an empty list to hold the results and initializing a variable to keep track of the running sum. My approach involved iterating through the input array and for each element, adding its value to the running sum and then appending this sum to the list of running sums. By the end of the loop, the list contained the running sum of all the elements in the input array, and I returned it as the final output.

#### Additional Details

Some edge cases I thought about were what if the list was empty?
The problem states that the nums list will never be empty

#### Solution Code

```js
var runningSum = function (nums) {
    var runningList = [];
    var currentSum = 0;
    for (let num of nums) {
        currentSum += num;
        runningList.push(currentSum);
    }
    return runningList;
};
```

### Another solution. Same complexity, just more concide code

-   **Time Complexity**: O(N)
-   **Space Complexity**: O(N)

#### Additional Details

Uses the map() method to apply a function to each element of the array, which in this case is an arrow function that adds the current element to the running sum and returns the new sum. The result is an array of running sums that is returned as the output.

#### Solution Code

```js
var runningSum = function (nums) {
    let currentSum = 0;
    return nums.map((num) => (currentSum += num));
};
```
